Top 4 screen recorders in Linux

Screen Recording is a a difficult job on every OS. Linux has it really bad however today I will show four free as in beer and freedom screen recording programs for Linux.

1) Record my desktop

Record my desktop was the first main screen recording program released for Linux. It has many options for screen recording however has no screenshot function or webcam viewer included.

To install Record my desktop in Ubuntu and other debian based distros type

sudo apt-get install gtk-recordmydesktop

The main problem with record my desktop is that until recently it couldn't encode on the fly and therefore sometimes is heavier on CPU power.

Below is a screenshot of GTK record my desktop

Top 4 screen recorders in Linux
2) Kazam

Kazam was a revolution in screen recording. It was the first major screen caster with on the fly encoding and comes with a built in screenshot function. The main problem with Kazam is it has no webcam viewer and doesn't work with every configuration.

You can install Kazam by typing

sudo apt-get install kazam

Below is a screenshot of Kazam

Top 4 screen recorders in Linux
3) Vokoscreen

Vokoscreen is a screen casting application which comes with a built in webcam viewer and has lots of settings for changing audio sources and many other settings.

The main disadvantage is there is now screenshot capture mode so you have to record a screen cast.

You can also install Vokoscreen in debian based distros by typing

sudo apt-get install vokoscreen

Underneath is a screenshot of Vokoscreen

Top 4 screen recorders in Linux
4) Simple Screen Recorder

Simple screen recorder is a very simple screen recorder which can be customized quite a lot. It is good because it can encode on the fly also the hot keys can be customized very easily. However it's bad because the program has one audio track and no screenshot or webcam function. 
There are multiple steps to installing simple screen recorder in ubuntu and ubuntu based distros

1) Type in the command <code>sudo add-apt-repository ppa:maarten-baert/simplescreenrecorder

2) Then type in the command

sudo apt-get update

3) Then finally type 
sudo apt-get install simplescreenrecorder

Attached underneath is a screenshot of Simple Screen Recorder.

Top 4 screen recorders in Linux
Conclusion

To conclude all of these screen casting applications work well on most systems so you just choose the program with the features you need.

Please write in the comments if this helps you, If you want me to make another tutorial like this or if i made a mistake.